## solar-wind-energy-production
### Measurements of solar&wind energy production in France 01.01.2020-30.06.2023

 In this project, I want to research the impact of seasonality on solar and wind power generation in France for the period from 01.01.2020 to 30.06.2023. The analysis also aims to investigate the possibility of compensating for electricity from one source with electricity from another at a time when the generation of energy from one source is reduced due to seasonal conditions. The measurements were made on an hourly basis, and in my work on the graphs, I considered it appropriate to show the average value of electricity production per hour in the annual, monthly and hourly context. Since the data on electricity consumption in the market is unknown, I cannot analyze how the state compensates producers for the difference between consumption and energy produced. After all, it is no secret that Europe periodically faces the problem of electricity surpluses, the source of which is renewable energy.
______________________________________________________________________________
 First, In Excel, using the Power Query tool, I corrected the data types, and also made some manipulations with the time format, because Excel did not perceive the time as 24:00, so I had to correct it to 00:00 and add one to the day. After that I uploaded the table to Tableau Public.
 Next, I made 4 main graphs, combining them into an interactive dashboard - a visualization of the average hourly electricity production for the studied years, months, during the day, and also researched the influence of seasonality on changes in renewable energy generation.
 #### [link to dashboard in tableau_public](https://public.tableau.com/views/MeasurementsofsolarandwindgeneratedenergyinFrance/sheet4?:language=en-US&:sid=&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link)
 The first graph compares the size of the average electricity production per hour by year depending on the energy source. On the right side there are 2 filters - one sets the years, the other-the energy source.The second graph is a line graph showing how the average electricity production per hour varies depending on the month of the year. By clicking on the +, you can expand and go to each day of each year under study and examine the average energy generated.The third graph shows how solar and wind energy varies depending on the hour of the day. The fourth graph reveals the periods of seasonality in the years of measurement of solar and wind energy generation.This graph is not affected by some filters, only the highlighting and the filter by year are affected.This is very convenient if you want to, for example, see the seasonality for the last 2 years, or for the first 2 years of measurement.

 The following conclusions can be made: wind power provides more generated electricity, but it is more variable and intermittent. Most wind energy is produced in the winter months, and least in the summer months. Solar energy, on the other hand, is more predictable. Most solar energy is produced in the summer months, with a peak in June.There is a noticeable trend of increasing average electricity production per hour from the sun every year from 2020 to 2023, but this requires additional research each year.
It is also interesting that in the summer months, when wind energy decreases and has the highest minimums of the year, it can be interchanged with solar energy, at the same time when solar energy has its annual maximums. There are days when wind energy is less than solar energy, due to the intermittent nature of wind energy, so in summer it is more likely to be replaced by more stable and predictable solar energy (especially in summer months when the average electricity production per hour of solar and wind energy is almost equal).
